The Sistafam app was developed as part of my final year project.  Together, my team and I were paired up with a real-world industry partner of QUT to develop their idea and make it a reality.  The assignment was to create the social media app intended for a specific audience with as many features as plausible including live chat, groups, posts, profiles, friends and additional networking features.  As we developed the app, QUT additionally required that we adhere to proper project management practices and we were required to provide evidence of this during our development.  The existing resources for this project were sparse as the previous Capstone team to work on it made strides in the visual design, but had not begun any of the implementation for it.  As a result of this and with an understanding that we were unlikely to complete every single feature, we made it our goal to ensure that the next team to pick up the project would find everything logically structured and set up.  Through developing, managing and adhering to good development practices, this project above most others has prepared me for a role in IT development.

The technologies used for this project were specifically requested by the client, as such we developed the app using Google’s Flutter framework which integrated cleanly with Firebase.  The flutter framework adds an additional layer of abstraction on top of existing frameworks such as Nodejs and angular and enables rapid iteration and minimal development time for similar projects.  Firebase was designed on the basis of Back end as a service and removed the need for us to develop the server software ourselves.  This meant that the database, login services, session tracking and image storage were all managed indirectly by the service through the use of their API.  The weakness of this was that we were completely unaware of what was going on under the covers.  Through using these two technologies together we were able to create the majority of the features for the app in the 16 weeks we had allocated to development.

During a project like this, we encountered a number of issues that we had to overcome.  While the majority of the project was developed smoothly and ahead of schedule, our biggest hurdle as a team was learning the language for the flutter framework (ie. DART).  This challenge put a serious dent in our early development sprints as we quickly fell behind schedule; To overcome this, we collectively worked together to do smaller tasks to learn the fundamentals of the language then used those as the foundation for expanding the widgets into full on features.  A present issue after we overcame that one was the inconsistency of our code design and structure.  With multiple developers all who have differing levels of experience and whose coding preferences differed greatly, reading or updating something that wasn’t developed by you became extremely difficult.  We didn’t account for this being an issue until several weeks into the project, but once it became apparent, we had a series of meetings to come up with a standard by which we would structure our code so that was it was more accessible for the other team members.  Through doing this we significantly cut down on future setbacks once the project had grown significantly.
